{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue28;\red251\green253\blue252;\red129\green137\blue147;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13725\c14510;\cssrgb\c98824\c99216\c99216;\cssrgb\c57647\c60784\c64314;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sim\'f3n Gonz\'e1lez\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:00:37\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 including new countries in the world.\cb1 \
\cb3 The next slide, please.\cb1 \
\cb3 So for the data collection, we have several steps. The first one, even though it's not specifically about the data collection, but it's extremely important, is of course the recruitment. We're trying to find practitioners and researchers from these academic institutions, international organizations.\cb1 \
\cb3 is very important. And because.\cb1 \
\cb3 From our perspective, we can try to find the laws, to find the information sitting here from Latin America, trying to find this information.\cb1 \
\cb3 of other countries in the world. But of course, the local expertise of the specific researcher in the specific country is essential from our perspective.\cb1 \
\cb3 So this is why, for us, it's preferable that the researchers are based in the country that is under analysis. And this is why the partnerships with all of the institutions that you can see in the slide is so important, and the partnership with ESCAP.\cb1 \
\cb3 was or is so important.\cb1 \
\cb3 So the first challenges in this data collection process regarding recruitment is the process of finding the best local researchers that count with us.\cb1 \
\cb3 that bring this expertise of the legislation, the local legislation that manages the local language. This is very important as it has been mentioned.\cb1 \
\cb3 And not only they know the legislation, but they know what is actually happening in terms of enforcement, in terms of practices, in terms of these practices that are not found in the legislation.\cb1 \
\cb3 But nevertheless, they happen inside the countries. And this is key in terms, and this is why the recruitment is so important.\cb1 \
\cb3 One of the risks in this step is balancing between.\cb1 \
\cb3 the\'85 the expertise.\cb1 \
\cb3 that the local researchers can bring to the table and the expertise that, for example.\cb1 \
\cb3 other researchers with more experience in terms of digital trade, in terms of, for example, specific topics, data transfers, foreign direct investment, etc. Balancing between.\cb1 \
\cb3 the experience of the local researcher and the expertise of the researchers that are not from the country but have more experience or more academic background in terms of digital trade.\cb1 \
\cb3 Please, the next slide.\cb1 \
\cb3 So the second step will be the review of secondary sources. So when we do the data collection, we recommend, and that's what we do, is try to go first to the secondary sources.\cb1 \
\cb3 And not going first to the primary sources. And this is because these databases, reports by international organizations, legal reviews, government resources, and news articles, they already know, they already have analyzed.\cb1 \
\cb3 the legislation, or they know more about the practices, about the enforcement, about what's actually happening inside the country. They have analyzed this.\cb1 \
\cb3 And this helps us to speed up the process and going then.\cb1 \
\cb3 after seeing the secondary sources, going then to the primary sources and confirm what the secondary sources have already found and analyze. And this of course gives us a.\cb1 \
\cb3 So it helps us to back up what we are mentioning in our database, what we're including in our database. It's not only our analysis, which is also for us very important, the analysis in our team.\cb1 \
\cb3 or the local researchers is not only that, but a second analysis that has already been done in these secondary sources. But there are, of course, as previously, there are, of course, some challenges in this step.\cb1 \
\cb3 And this is because on some of them is the limited focus on specific policy areas. So sometimes other databases and one that is very important is the Digital Policy Alert database.\cb1 \
\cb3 Some of them not contain all the policy areas we try to cover in our database. They cover sometimes other policy areas we don't cover.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Sim\'f3n Gonz\'e1lez\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:05:42\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 So this, of course, is a challenge because we need to then go to this database, we need to go to other databases that complement the information.\cb1 \
\cb3 Of course, another challenge is the lack of structured formats for efficient review. In some cases, some of the databases or the secondary sources that we check.\cb1 \
\cb3 constantly have the information, but not in a way that we can find quickly the information inside the the source, because they don't follow structures that we follow, or or.\cb1 \
\cb3 Some of the secondary sources simply don't follow any sort of structure. They just contain information, random information in different ways.\cb1 \
\cb3 And of course, another challenge is some of the secondary. No, please go back.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yes, and another challenge, a very important challenge is that many of these databases don't cover many of the countries that we would like to cover.\cb1 \
\cb3 And this is especially important in some of the least developed countries in the world. Many of these databases only cover\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 develop countries, or focus on countries that they want, they would like to focus. So, for example, the source, the Foreign Trade Barriers National Trade Estimate Report.\cb1 \
\cb3 of the Usdr. They cover well the the countries that they would like to cover. They would like to show some restrictions in in those countries. So we need to go to other databases, or in those cases we need to go directly.\cb1 \
\cb3 to the primary source or use, of course, some tools to find information in the primary source.\cb1 \
\cb3 And regarding the risks, in some cases, the sources may oversimplify issues. So for example, if you have an issue.\cb1 \
\cb3 If you would like to show in the database, in our database, you would like to show a very complex issue that you need to show different laws.\cb1 \
\cb3 You need to show enforcement of those laws, what is actually happening in those laws. Sometimes the sources just stick with one of these things. So they mention only a specific problem or they don't mention.\cb1 \
\cb3 a specific article inside the laws. They simply show a part of the situation that they want to show.\cb1 \
\cb3 or the culture.\cb1 \
\cb3 So in this case, they don't only oversimplify, they also omit in some cases relevant information. And of course, a normal or human problem is that in some of the cases the sources contain.\cb1 \
\cb3 some errors, which we of course try to, for that challenge or that risk, of course, we always go to the primary source to confirm the information that is shown in the secondary source.\cb1 \
\cb3 Then based on a slide.\cb1 \
\cb3 So, of course, the next step, it will be the review of the primary sources. So then we go to the official gazettes of laws and regulations, and in this case.\cb1 \
\cb3 Of course, the obvious challenge that we find.\cb1 \
\cb3 In that, in some cases, there is no\'85 the countries have not published the laws online. So in some cases, we have found the situation in which the\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 The law has been adopted, it has been signed by the authorities, by the president or the king, et cetera. They have signed it, it has been adopted, it has entered into force, but it's not published online.\cb1 \
\cb3 And in some cases we have had to have this information with contacting local authorities or with the help of local legal experts inside the country or in other ways.\cb1 \
\cb3 This problem, of course, as I mentioned before, is\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 is mostly found in the least developed countries. And we try to, of course, to\'85\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Sim\'f3n Gonz\'e1lez\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:10:48\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 to use all our tools, all our expertise, all the contacts with the government, etc. But in some cases, the information is simply not there.\cb1 \
\cb3 Or it's impossible to find.\cb1 \
\cb3 Language barriers, as it has been mentioned before, is, of course, a very important challenge. So, in this case, we, of course, there are many tools to.\cb1 \
\cb3 For this challenge, we try to use many tools, AI tools or other tools, but in some cases, these tools don't give you the best translation possible.\cb1 \
\cb3 Or something is missing in those translations, and that's very important when you try to code specific restrictions and specific policies.\cb1 \
\cb3 Broken links is another problem. And another problem that is very important is, of course.\cb1 \
\cb3 identifying what is actually relevant inside the loss. In some cases, as I mentioned before, the sources, the secondary sources, they contain some of the information that is inside the loss.\cb1 \
\cb3 But it's always very important to have a look at the law completely if possible, because other articles inside the laws or sections inside the laws could be also important or other laws.\cb1 \
\cb3 Could be relevant.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sometimes the sources don't take this into account. So a detailed review of the loss is always very important.\cb1 \
\cb3 And in terms of risk, something that is very common is that in some cases, some laws inside the same countries, they sometimes contradict each other.\cb1 \
\cb3 each other, or they complement each other. So this and in these cases.\cb1 \
\cb3 Not identifying the relevance of a law or a section in terms of another law and section will be a very important issue.\cb1 \
\cb3 way to make a mistake doing the data collection. So can we continue with the next slide?\cb1 \
\cb3 So in terms of the time consuming aspects of the process, of the data collection process. So when we have a new entry inside our database, we of course, and we are showing in this moment in the screen.\cb1 \
\cb3 how an entry looks inside our database. We try to find the laws. We try to find when a specific restriction policy started, when it was adopted, when it entered into force.\cb1 \
\cb3 If an amendment is important or is relevant in order for the restriction, all of these timelines are key when we do the data collection.\cb1 \
\cb3 And of course, this takes a lot of time in some cases because all of these issues have an important impact for the policies.\cb1 \
\cb3 So another time-consuming aspect of the process is ensuring accurate translation. So in some cases we have to use several tools for doing the translation or confirm that the translation has been done well by the tool.\cb1 \
\cb3 local experts or with people that manage the local language. So all of these steps to ensure the accurate translation, of course, is very time consuming.\cb1 \
\cb3 Um\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 And that's something that is very important and tools are now very helpful for for this is the loss of aspect.\cb1 \
\cb3 It's the loss of access to previously verified links. So we try to use some tools.\cb1 \
\cb3 in order to save some of the links that we have seen. We save those links using different tools.\cb1 \
\cb3 But in some cases, not even that is possible and that takes, or quickly, and that takes a lot of time.\cb1 \
\cb3 And, um\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 Sorry, can you give me a second?\cb1 \
\cb3 And another important aspect of this process is that for avoiding, for trying to avoid mistakes, we try to use different methods.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Sim\'f3n Gonz\'e1lez\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:15:49\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 several steps, human steps to avoid mistakes. So I, for example, I can have a look at the laws. Then Tomas, for example, can also have a look at the same laws or same reports.\cb1 \
\cb3 and all local researchers. And and the all of this cross checking is very important in order to avoid mistakes. And this, that is also time consuming. Every tool that can help in this process would be amazing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Please, the next slide.\cb1 \
\cb3 So, in terms of time, I think I'm going to go in this one very quickly, because Tomas is going to expand more into the information of tools. But I think\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 As I have mentioned, the tool for identifying the information in the primary and secondary sources is very important. AI tools or other tools, this is very important. In terms of the readability of the documents, using tools for scan PDFs.\cb1 \
\cb3 It's essential in some cases, it's impossible or very time consuming to read these links which scan PDFs.\cb1 \
\cb3 read it completely without the help of a tool or without the help of a local researcher. And and this is essential.\cb1 \
\cb3 In.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 And one of the, I'm going very quickly. So for the limitations, in some cases there are no tools in our disposal or available in the market to support all of what I have mentioned.\cb1 \
\cb3 And this is a problem we have found very quick, very frequently.\cb1 \
\cb3 and or also, of course, a limitation is the knowledge of how to use these tools effectively. And of course, this many of these tools are very recent in the market, and it's a process also to learn how to use them is takes some.\cb1 \
\cb3 Experience takes some time, but it's very important for the data collection process.\cb1 \
\cb3 This the next slide.\cb1 \
\cb3 So the final challenges and limitation that we have found is the exponential growth in regulatory activity and frequent amendments and replacement of.\cb1 \
\cb3 and replacement of legislation across countries. Of course, all of these changes that countries do in terms of their legislation is very problematic.\cb1 \
\cb3 for the data collection process for the researchers, because you need to constantly update the database. And for, as you can imagine, for more than 160 countries. This is a very.\cb1 \
\cb3 time consuming process or that needs a lot of work from different researchers.\cb1 \
\cb3 And it's not only that there are new laws or new amendments, it's that legislation, digital trade legislation worldwide is becoming more and more technical, more and more complex. Countries frequently try to.\cb1 \
\cb3 impose different types of restrictions in different ways. And this, of course, is a challenge for the researchers.\cb1 \
\cb3 As it has been mentioned before, sometimes the governments, we sometimes need the help from local governments or local researchers, people with local expertise, but the feedback is not always there. So this is of course a very important challenge.\cb1 \
\cb3 And, uh\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 For\'85 in terms of, uh\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 And it's very important to have this help from the local experts because in some cases the laws or the practices are not the same, they have the same impact.\cb1 \
\cb3 But they are not exactly the same. When you see the laws, when you see what they actually do inside the countries, they don't always do the same things.\cb1 \
\cb3 in those different countries. And another problem is that there is limited consensus among the different countries on how to classify if this is a restriction, if it is not.\cb1 \
\cb3 If it is an international good practice, all of this is a very important problem for us.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Sim\'f3n Gonz\'e1lez\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:20:52\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 for the process of data collection.\cb1 \
\cb3 Thank you very much.\cb1 \
\cb3 Thomas.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Tom\'e1s Rogaler\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:21:01\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Thank you. Well, now with this broad, comprehensive picture that Simon has given and also the other presentations, I will move to the more general stage to focus on what tools will be needed to produce regulatory research that is faster and more reliable.\cb1 \
\cb3 So at this stage, the key issue is not only whether AI can help us to find legal information, but the more relevant question is whether the tool can transform that information into regulatory evidence. With this, I mean a documented record linking the regulatory measure.\cb1 \
\cb3 to its legal source, provision of text, translation, timeline, and the methodological relevance.\cb1 \
\cb3 If so, this regulatory evidence needs to be structured, comparable, and auditable. Otherwise, the tool may save the time at the search stage, but can create new problems at the review stage.\cb1 \
\cb3 In practical terms, the output must be aligned with the methodology followed. And for our case, this should, among other things, identify the country, the relevant pillars and indicators, the legal instrument, specific provisions, dates, among other things.\cb1 \
\cb3 So to ensure that an AI tool is useful for comparative regulatory research, I will focus on three essential elements, format, citation quality, and language coverage.\cb1 \
\cb3 The first element is format. So, once the tool finds a relevant law or regulation, how should it present that information so that the researcher can verify and use it in a proper way?\cb1 \
\cb3 Among the most informative, information must be structured, must be machine readable and compatible with the software you are using for your research. In this sense, for the database like the DTI, a paragraph level answer is not enough.\cb1 \
\cb3 The tool should produce outputs that can be directly reviewed and compared by the researchers.\cb1 \
\cb3 And with these outputs that can be directly reviewed and compared, I mean that findings should be broken down in different fields. For example, in the case of the DTI or the Regional Data Trade Integration Index, the tool should separately identify the country, the relevant pillar indicator.\cb1 \
\cb3 Provisions, as I mentioned, the source, date, and likewise, it should include flags of uncertainty, missing information, contradictory sources, and possible amendments and repeals of the different laws and regulations.\cb1 \
\cb3 This matters because comparability, it depends on the structure. If two researchers receive unstructured summaries, they may code similar measures differently, but if they receive the same type of evidence in the same type of format.\cb1 \
\cb3 the review can become faster and more consistent. Yes, 3 min. Thank you.\cb1 \
\cb3 Next slide, please.\cb1 \
\cb3 So the second element is citation quality. When we get a structured output, how do we ensure that this one is auditable for researchers and for the general public?\cb1 \
\cb3 In regulatory analysis, a generic citation to a law is rarely sufficient. If the tool says that the country has a data localization requirement, for example, we need to know exactly where the requirement is located.\cb1 \
\cb3 Is this in a statute, in an implementing regulation, in a decree, or is in a specific sector guideline? This is particularly relevant because secondary sources, as mentioned, Simon, may refer to a legislation.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sometimes the specific provisions, the dates of which these measures apply are not included. As well, when using primary sources, they may contradict, complement, or modify each other. A law may establish a general rule, while a decree, guideline, or sector regulation may define the actual compliance obligation.\cb1 \
\cb3 For this reason, the tool should not only cite the document, but also identify the exact article, section, or paragraph.\cb1 \
\cb3 with the enforcement states and amendments.\cb1 \
\cb3 Good citation quality is what makes the output auditable. The researcher should be able to move from the proposed classification back to the original legal source quickly and transparently.\cb1 \
\cb3 The third requirement is language coverage. Please, next slide.\cb1 \
\cb3 Although many countries have a.\cb1 \
\cb3 Next slide, please.\cb1 \
\cb3 Although many countries have adequate translations of their laws, many of the most relevant legal sources are not available in English, in countries where English is not their first language. Therefore, if a tool relies primarily on English language sources, it will replicate existing coverage gaps and may overlook.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Tom\'e1s Rogaler\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:26:05\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Precisely those countries where support is most needed.\cb1 \
\cb3 However, this does not mean that researchers should rely only on tools given by AI translation. Ideally, the tool should provide a reliable translation, but also retain the original legal text.\cb1 \
\cb3 and indicate the relevant provision in both documents. This is important because legal meaning often depends on specific terms, institutional reference or drafting conventions, and in this regard it is essential to verify and compare the provisions of the translation.\cb1 \
\cb3 in both of the texts, the translation and the original one. Ideally, the tool should also flag uncertainty, and for example, if a term has not.\cb1 \
\cb3 clear legal equivalent in English, or if the translation depends on a context, this should be visible for the reviewer.\cb1 \
\cb3 And finally.\cb1 \
\cb3 Next slide, please. Once the tool has been has produced those output.\cb1 \
\cb3 How should the researcher use them? AI can accelerate the preparation stage of regulatory research, but final verification, interpretation, and coding must remain with the human researchers.\cb1 \
\cb3 In comparative regulatory work, the most difficult part is often not finding a document, but deciding how this document fits in the methodology. For this reason, the strongest contribution of AI would be to reduce the time spent on discovery, extraction, and citation.\cb1 \
\cb3 while keeping human researchers responsible for the final validation.\cb1 \
\cb3 Thank you very much.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:27:48\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Thank you very much, Simons and Thomas. I saw questions in Q&A, but I think we \'97 to save time, could you please write your answer in the Q&A chat because they direct those questions to you.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Sim\'f3n Gonz\'e1lez\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:28:05\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Sure.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:28:05\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Let me move on to our last speaker. He has more than 20 years experience in tech sectors. He was working.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Tom\'e1s Rogaler\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:28:05\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Yep.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:28:20\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 As former deputy MD in Microsoft and the most interesting part in his profile would be he has bring both engineer and regulations together in the projects of Thailand to OECD.\cb1 \
\cb3 that he used GenAI and GraphRec to align the Thai laws to OECD standards.\cb1 \
\cb3 Kun Sarut, please share your experience with.\cb1 \
\cb3 Art.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:28:51\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Okay, thank you. Good morning, good evening, good afternoon, everyone in the session. To be very honest, I'm very excited. I'm the engineer in the room. So I'm not going to have a slide to talk to you about regulations, how to define the laws, et cetera.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, but, uh, I put up my presentation as, uh, an engineering lesson learned on, uh, what we have done recently in Thailand, and what I believe it might be relevant to those, uh, uh, technical people.\cb1 \
\cb3 in the session who might need to develop a certain AI system to to address this hackathon target, I would say.\cb1 \
\cb3 So let me bring up my slide.\cb1 \
\cb3 Okay, can you see my slide properly right now?\cb1 \
\cb3 Okay, I, I, I, I hope it all good, but that, uh, very colorful slide.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:29:56\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Yes, we can see.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:29:58\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Yes, so I'll briefly introduce myself again. I'm Sarut. I am the Chief Technology Officer from a company called Estelligence. We're based in Thailand. We've done a lot of work of LLM-related application development, supporting.\cb1 \
\cb3 Most Thai customers and some regional customers as well.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, I\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 In terms of who we are and what my presentation is all about, we won a Microsoft AI Partner of the Year award for Southeast Asia in 2024 with that particular project that the Vice President of Microsoft.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mr. Brad Smith has shared on his LinkedIn two months ago. So basically what he said, I just want to read what he said. Thailand has done something that the OECD has recognized as the first and inspirational example for the world.\cb1 \
\cb3 Wir lernen.\cb1 \
\cb3 So.\cb1 \
\cb3 Haben.\cb1 \
\cb3 We need to perform, uh\'85 we need to go through what they call an accession process, which basically means that we need to look into every single legal instrument in our country.\cb1 \
\cb3 and get back to Oecd and tell Oecd how aligned our legal instrument are according to the legal instrument from Oecd. It sounds simple, but in reality we're talking about more than 270 legal instrument.\cb1 \
\cb3 from Oecd side, and then more than 70,000 legal documents in Thailand. So we need to do that cross referencing. We end up analyze more than a million of legal provisions.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, over the past X months.\cb1 \
\cb3 And what I want to call out is, this is a picture of the output of the system.\cb1 \
\cb3 So, back in December, uh, 2025, I think, uh, the OECD team has come to meet Thai government, that's the, uh, that's the Prime Minister. Uh, we basically submit the initial memorandum to OECD, and that, uh, more than a thousand pages of memorandum is.\cb1 \
\cb3 AI generated memorandum. So that's what exactly what Brad Smith has mentioned, that this is the 1st time where Oecd accepted AI generated documents. So that's that's the what we've done.\cb1 \
\cb3 So, in a nutshell, as I said earlier, we process 70,000 legal Thai documents, around more than a million of sections, depending on how you define the sections of the regulations. Usually, this process takes about 7 to 10 years for those countries who already joined OECD.\cb1 \
\cb3 Thailand has very ambitious target that we want to speed up the accession, so we make it 11 times faster. So in total, we have done this project for, I think, for about 15 months.\cb1 \
\cb3 give and take, uh, from the beginning of the project until the day that we hand over the initial memorandum report to OECD.\cb1 \
\cb3 So, there are four major\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 challenges that this system will need to address. Number one is, as the previous presenter mentioned, the language. So, OECD instrument is in English. Thai legal instrument is obviously in Thai.\cb1 \
\cb3 So, we're gonna need to process the cross-referencing of these, uh, two sets of documents in two different languages.\cb1 \
\cb3 And then we need to be able to identify one OECD instrument, usually touch about 30 or 50 different legal instruments, which you will see later. And then there's a lot of many-to-many legal mapping that we need to identify and cross-reference as well.\cb1 \
\cb3 And most importantly, as every, uh, uh, presenter before me mentioned, that how do we do this with human in the loop at scale? Because we're not gonna say that, hey, uh, AI, let's do this job, and we will take it for granted. So we put human in the loop in every single, uh, step, uh, possible. So that's\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 That's kind of like the four big challenges when we design this project.\cb1 \
\cb3 So here's how the design looks like.\cb1 \
\cb3 First, since our end user is OECD themselves, so we need to uphold the AI principle of OECD. But specifically for this project, the top three principle that we need to really, really focus on was.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:35:12\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Transparency, security and safety, and accountability, obviously, because we don't want to treat AI as a black box.\cb1 \
\cb3 And this is how the overall project looks like. So, when we receive an OECD instrument, we need to answer this question. Number one, how can we.\cb1 \
\cb3 translate the instrument from English to Thai.\cb1 \
\cb3 Then we need to be able to understand what this instrument is all about. What does it regulate?\cb1 \
\cb3 Once we identify the content of that particular instrument, then we need to identify which Thai legal documents really went to this particular instrument.\cb1 \
\cb3 And then we need to identify the alignment level of the Thailand versus OECD requirement.\cb1 \
\cb3 And then we identify which government agency who is responsible for this particular piece of instrument. And then we need to identify the gaps, where the gaps are between Thai instrument and OECD instrument. We combine everything and serve the analysis to the human lawyer.\cb1 \
\cb3 where human lawyer will review all the AI recommended or AI suggestion once we took human lawyer feedback into the system then the AI will summarize it again and finally generate the.\cb1 \
\cb3 Depending on the current workflow that the human operates and the future workflow that you will develop AI to serve the needs. Because the earlier you can identify the workflow is the better you will decide, okay, this is where we're going to put human in the loop.\cb1 \
\cb3 as a governance gatekeeper. You can't do this at the late stage of the design, and if you don't do this early in the game, your system will not be able to scale out properly. For example, at the beginning of this project, we have a discussion where.\cb1 \
\cb3 hey, should we do a chatbot, or can we leverage Microsoft Copilot to do this work? The answer is no, because this is just one OECD. We've got.\cb1 \
\cb3 270 more OECD instrument coming in, and then the human lawyer on the right-hand side, we're talking about.\cb1 \
\cb3 65 up to 70 government agencies in Thailand across the country.\cb1 \
\cb3 So with that scale into the picture, you have issues about, you know, how can you standardize the process, how you can ensure everyone write the same prompts, how you can ensure everyone read the same languages coming from the system. So a lot of variation is going to happen if you build this as a chatbot.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, that's why we decided that, okay, this is not gonna be a chatbot, this is gonna be a workflow-based application. So that's\'85 that's kind of, like, uh, what you need to buy in my\'85 very early in the game.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, the second part is the translation that\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 lots of people mentioned already. So, this is what we have done on the AI translation engine when it comes down to English versus Thai. So, basically, the key thing is here.\cb1 \
\cb3 We develop.\cb1 \
\cb3 A legally approved glossary And then we keep that glossary as part of the SKUMD for the AI agent So the job of the AI agent is to read and understand the context of the legal content.\cb1 \
\cb3 And B, pick the right words, and C, surface the word that the AI picked for the human lawyer to approve. A classic example is the term public.\cb1 \
\cb3 Public means so many things in Thai. It can mean which is public. It can mean which is people. It can mean, you know, there are six, seven different ways to translate public from English to Thai.\cb1 \
\cb3 So that's the trick that we have used in this project.\cb1 \
\cb3 Another part for translation that you might want to look into is dates.\cb1 \
\cb3 For the English-speaking country, this might not be an issue, but for Thailand cases, we use different calendar as compared to you. We're not using Korean calendar, so we need to do a date conversion properly. And also, strongly suggest all of you.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:40:21\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 to discuss about the format of the date at the beginning of project. Are you going to go European way or US way?\cb1 \
\cb3 That will impact a lot on your hoard, so discuss that earlier in the planning.\cb1 \
\cb3 And here comes the selection and the mapping part. This is going to be quite complicated, but basically we leverage generative AI, the LLM capability to perform semantic matching, which is basically\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 mapping all possible terms and terminology that can match between two legal instruments. Take data privacy, for example. For data privacy in the English semantic terms, at least you have five different.\cb1 \
\cb3 semantically similar terms here there.\cb1 \
\cb3 In Thai, for those of you who can read Thai, this is all five. And for Bahasa, those of you who can read Bahasa, that's also another five terms. So this is the, I would say, a spider web of what could be potentially related to.\cb1 \
\cb3 data privacy term. So this is where we leverage generative AI to perform what we call semantic matching.\cb1 \
\cb3 Once we can perform a semantic matching, what we've done, again, in this project is to construct a legal database that has multiple layers.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, you heard a lot from the previous, uh, professor, uh, that mentioned about, you know, in the digital trade, uh, uh, domains, there are hierarchy of the legal paper, etc. Uh, we do the same for this OECD project, where we basically construct a database of Thai legal instrument.\cb1 \
\cb3 Based on the section, the legislation, up to the notification and the rules, and then we build a spider web using a technique called graph wrap, so that we have this database for the AI to crawl with high, very high accuracy.\cb1 \
\cb3 accuracy. So that's why we build this database. At the end of the project, we achieve this chart. For those of you who are legal professionals, you would understand this pain point. One legal instrument for this case, this is.\cb1 \
\cb3 uh, integrated mental health skills and work policy, usually related to more than 20 or even 30 legal instruments for the domestic countries. So this is what we built for this project, where you can run a query on the spider web of Thai legal database.\cb1 \
\cb3 Where you can pinpoint and identify which particular acts, which particular directive, which particular ministerial regulation related to what, on what specific area, and how that.\cb1 \
\cb3 all up linked to that OECD instrument on the left-hand side. So that's\'85 this is the outcome of that project. Once we have this, everything else is simple. We get the lawyer in the room to review each and every piece of the identified.\cb1 \
\cb3 Instrumental.\cb1 \
\cb3 A.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yes That.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hollywood Design v\uc0\u7899 i pro house house automat deve possiver choucle \u7903  watch coleen burfle luxuryve and bos the file and borts The five ware The human brawbert.\cb1 \
\cb3 V\'e0 Mosklodyizy Fucia Bicers United Engineer \uc0\u273 \'e3 h\u7879  C\'f4 Yoursure. \u272 \'e3 h\u7879  C\'f4 Yoursusivity Oco youkopaylop \u7903  desk Decatcheng Pigu d\'f9 Laikey con Help Morrand Houston.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, the second one is the governance and the agents, as everyone knows agent these days. How do you plan to govern the agent, etc? That's\'85 that's, you know\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 the second part of the design that you need to really look into. And the third one, just like my previous presenter, uh, very, uh, greatly mentioned about data. The output, uh, that coming out from the system need to be in a structured way. How do you plan to have the structured output coming out?\cb1 \
\cb3 How do you decide all those fields? That's another area that you need to look into. So I want to touch a bit on the topic of governance and the AI agent. I think everyone talks about AI agent, right?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:45:29\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 And, uh, for those technical team in the room, I want to highlight that.\cb1 \
\cb3 AI agent is what we call technically as a heuristic system, which is basically the nature of generative AI, where it uses the probabilistic model to identify, extract, classify, process.\cb1 \
\cb3 data set that coming in. There's a pro and con of this system. We all know that generative AI these days is the good stuff. That's why we're all here. But there's a draw side of the nature of the heuristic system as well.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh\'85 for example, everyone keeps\'85 always asks me that, Kun Suruj, how do we build a system where you run the system twice and it gives you the same result? The answer is no, you can't expect\'85 you cannot expect that from a generative AI system.\cb1 \
\cb3 If you expect consistency, you need to have another system baked into the same solution. Another system is what we call deterministic system. So basically, it's a system where there is no randomness. One plus one is two. Three plus four is seven.\cb1 \
\cb3 as always, it's going to be fully predictable behavior, there's no random, it's pretty much rule-based. And guess what? Everyone knows this as Python.\cb1 \
\cb3 So my point is, when you design your system from an engineering standpoint.\cb1 \
\cb3 Don't only use prompt, because if you only use prompt and you say, hey, let Claude Cowork do this, let Copilot Studio do that, you're going to end up to have so many randomness in the system, and eventually you can't scale it out.\cb1 \
\cb3 So you need to think about which part of my workflow is going to be heuristic, and which part of my workflow has to be deterministic.\cb1 \
\cb3 Because any part that you expect consistency, repeatability, you need to have a deterministic system, rule-based system, not a heuristic system. On the other hand, if that part of your workflow require.\cb1 \
\cb3 you know, some nuances of legal interpretation, language differences, you're gonna need to rely on heuristic system, not Python.\cb1 \
\cb3 Think about how to identify five different ways to say data privacy versus if you want to do a calculation, don't use LLM to calculate for you. You can simply write Python for three lines of Python. You can do the calculation much simpler.\cb1 \
\cb3 Okay? So that would be my very, very strong recommendation when designing the system. Another one, and I intentionally put this in a funny way, the governance. So everyone talk a lot about how to govern AI, how to automate, how not to automate.\cb1 \
\cb3 Where do you put human in the loop? Uh, my response to that is, there's no\'85 there's no\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 There's no single answer to all those questions. It all depends on the project, it all depends on how you design the workflow, and it all depends on how you interact with the user.\cb1 \
\cb3 I think it's more of an art than a science. For example.\cb1 \
\cb3 anyone who watched football like me would remember this photo. This is\'85 for those of you who\'85 who don't watch football, I'm sorry. Uh, but this is the scene of what we call the hand of God.\cb1 \
\cb3 where Diego Maradona just uh do uh did the handball uh back in those days in the football field there is no what we call WA the video uh uh referee so the referee did not catch that eventually that handball was.\cb1 \
\cb3 accepted uh uh and eventually uh Argentina got that score uh got that score this is a case of back at those day in the football in the game of football there is no oversight which mean there's no friction every every uh movement every turn.\cb1 \
\cb3 All the games are played quite continuously.\cb1 \
\cb3 But for those of you who watch football these days, we have video.\cb1 \
\cb3 And the video, it has pinpoint just like a small fraction of the upside of the players. So it turns out that these day in football game, we have so many oversight, lots of friction, there's less automation.\cb1 \
\cb3 So, in your system, when you pick up, you know, how much automation that I should put in, or how much oversight I should put in, think about these two extreme scenarios. No oversight is bad, but too much oversight is also bad as well.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, so you need to find the right balance. I think that's\'85 that's what I'm trying to convey with this scenario.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lastly, I have sum up five key principle when designing a generative AI system, at least from my experience dealing with legal tech and lots of regulation.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, number one, I think most of you technical people in the room would already know this.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:50:33\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 In every AI system, you need to have multiple iterations. You cannot expect the first version to be perfect. So your first version will just be okay.\cb1 \
\cb3 And then you continue to improve from your first version. And in order to do that.\cb1 \
\cb3 You need to identify first that what goods look like. Where do you want to go? Where do you need to be? What accuracy level that you need to match? What does it mean match?\cb1 \
\cb3 What does it mean good? How do you define good? I think that's the core. Because once you define what good looks like, then you can build the first version. Then you take feedback and iterate and reiterate toward the North Star of the project.\cb1 \
\cb3 So do not start a project without a clear definition of what goods looks like. So that's my first lesson learned, first principle.\cb1 \
\cb3 The second principle is, once you define what goods look like, and you understand the nature of AI project, where you need to build multiple iterations towards what goods look like.\cb1 \
\cb3 You need to build observability early in the game, meaning that you need to have telemetry monitoring, you need to have intermediate result monitoring, you need to have version control, you need to have arrival.\cb1 \
\cb3 unlock. You need to have a lock file. Anything that you can capture as a telemetry of each run will help you iterate much faster.\cb1 \
\cb3 In normal AI project, I have never seen any\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 good AI project that finished less than 3 iterations. So think about it, if you need to run this AI project at least 3 times, do you have enough luck, uh, to improve it on the second and the third iteration or not?\cb1 \
\cb3 And in order to have a good enough locks and telemetry, you need to design the observability very early in the game as well. That would be my recommendation.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, the third one is, uh, domain-bounded reasoning. I think I\'85 I've been listening to my\'85 all of my previous, uh, presenters, and I'm very enjoying.\cb1 \
\cb3 I guess what I'm trying to say is for those of you who are AI engineer, you absolutely cannot work in a legal and regulation domain without a very close collaboration with the legal and the regulatory expert.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, for example.\cb1 \
\cb3 Is data storage the same as.\cb1 \
\cb3 data processing from a legal standpoint no right but how do you define that in your prompts how do you teach your AI to distinguish the differences when it comes to not just a word but the interpretation of the word or another example is.\cb1 \
\cb3 If there's a regulation where you mandate a company to have a local registration in the country.\cb1 \
\cb3 Does it mean a national discrimination?\cb1 \
\cb3 I don't know. And if you don't tell AI, the AI will make its own assumption.\cb1 \
\cb3 So you need to collaborate and work very closely on the definition of.\cb1 \
\cb3 this is what it is this is not what it is with your legal expert in order to teach the AI with the right mindset or the right lens.\cb1 \
\cb3 I mentioned this already that eventually you need to have a very clear boundary between AI and code.\cb1 \
\cb3 The LLM is very good on semantic meaning, addressing ambiguity, reading human language, performing comparison, etc.\cb1 \
\cb3 But when it comes to validation, counting numbers, checking if the field is corrected, performing version control, scoring something, package the output in a structured way, I always use code, not using AI, because I need consistency.\cb1 \
\cb3 So, in the end, it's up to you, how do you define, this is what we need consistency, and this is where we need, you know, all the, uh, uh, uh, uh, nuances approach.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lastly, when you design this system, you heard from my earlier presenters as well, that we're not talking about one country, we're talking about multiple countries. And when\'85 and we talk about not just one domain, but multiple domains as well.\cb1 \
\cb3 So you're going to need to design.\cb1 \
\cb3 where\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 where the system should be generic, and where the system should be specific.\cb1 \
\cb3 If you design the system to be too generic, you will not be able to handle many things that are specific to that domain. On the other hand, if you design everything so specific, you can't scale out, you can't like\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 Hey, I build this for Thailand law, for Thailand law, and you want to replicate this same methodology to address Malaysia law. If you make it too specific, you won't be able to do that. So you need to, you know, design your system. Again, it's more of an art than science.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:55:36\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Don't make it too generic or too specific. You need to identify the right layer of this. From my experience, specific design comes up when it comes to the repository of the legal document that you need to handle. For example.\cb1 \
\cb3 In Thai website, we have our own way to\'85 for the date format, but in Singapore, in Malaysia, they will have different way to, uh, uh, address the date. And if you need to identify, is this provision still in effect or not?\cb1 \
\cb3 Your AI must understand the different format of different countries in writing the dates, right? So that's one of the specific design to each of the country. But when you come to generate, you need to be able to generalize that these are the area of cybersecurity, these are the areas of.\cb1 \
\cb3 data privacy, et cetera, et cetera. Uh, that's the general part, uh, that you should, uh, should, uh, look into. Lastly, I just think around when listening to my earlier presenter.\cb1 \
\cb3 I think in this specific hackathon.\cb1 \
\cb3 Finding the\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 Finding the laws or the instrument is, I wouldn't say simple, but it's straightforward.\cb1 \
\cb3 The difficult part for all of you in this hackathon is\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 Fighting.\cb1 \
\cb3 finding the no, not the yes. For example, you're gonna have a case where\'85 is Thailand have\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 local requirement or not, right? You're gonna need to find a law that define local requirement.\cb1 \
\cb3 But if you want to find, does Thailand have a ban on XYZ?\cb1 \
\cb3 You need to find the whole universe, search the whole universe, just to confirm that, no, Thailand doesn't have that ban.\cb1 \
\cb3 So, think about, are you searching for a yes, or are you searching for a no? That's gonna require a totally different search logic.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, uh, that would be my last recommendation. I'm sorry, I think I, uh, uh, over the time a bit, but I hope this is useful to all of you. Thank you, Hap.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:57:41\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Thank you very much, Kun Sarut. I believe that many of our participants today are engineers, because I saw many questions direct to you, and they feel very into what you are talking about, because they are solving.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:57:51\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Yes.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:57:59\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Quite similar things. I saw the questions with there are practical questions and there are carrier questions that you may be interested to answer.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:58:01\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Okay.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:58:14\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Start with practical questions. They ask whether you use off the shelf.\cb1 \
\cb3 LLM in your framework, in your OECD projects or not.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:58:24\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Yes, in OECD project, we partnership with Microsoft, so we leverage actual OpenAI model for that particular project. We start off project with GPT-4.0 just because back at those days, we don't have GPT-5 yet.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:58:27\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Bye.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:58:43\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Turns out that GPT-4o was quite okay, but obviously it's not as good as GPT-5.5 these days. So short answer is, in that particular project, you know, Brad Smith proudly presented that project, so it was Microsoft model.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:59:02\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Yes, definitely. And there is the questions about did you use.\cb1 \
\cb3 RLHF, I believe, is reinforced learning.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:59:14\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \uc0\u7900 !\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:59:14\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Queue in, yeah.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 19:59:30\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \uc0\u7902  vidon headel lashire bodad O iiti bigon b\u7883  oled hafiti ment of the wordplot h\u7885 c th\u7911  trong v\u7903  photo cho conpit showe with a of film exitoryion welbie with lo your order Frank Flash \u7903  anden viey and.\cb1 \
\cb3 GraphRAG to browse AI to give an accurate answer only. So we didn't have a chance to do RLHF. If I could go back in time, yes, I want to try that technique as well.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 20:00:00\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 And the other question is about how did you collaborate with the Thai government on the OECD projects? This would be very interested to replicate in.\cb1 \
\cb3 other countries, such as Indonesia, because they are\'85\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 20:00:17\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Right, right, uh\'85\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 20:00:19\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 into OECD as well.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 20:00:20\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Right. Again, to be very transparent, we, as the local company, was introduced by Microsoft to the responsible agency in the Thai government, which is the office of the Khalsi of the state.\cb1 \
\cb3 For those of you who doesn't know, the OCS, or Office of the Council of the State, is more of a legal house for the Thai government. They're responsible for drafting pretty much 80% of Thai laws.\cb1 \
\cb3 And they're responsible for interacting or interfacing with OECD. So basically, they are the project owner.\cb1 \
\cb3 So we work with the project owner, so the project owner will have the authority to collaborate across government agencies. That's how it works. I didn't have a big team to engage with 60 different government agencies. I only have one team that engaged with OCS, and then OCS.\cb1 \
\cb3 Help me engage with all other agencies altogether.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 20:01:22\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Thank you very much.\cb1 \
\cb3 No other questions to Khun Sarut right now, but I believe that\'85 Oh.\cb1 \
\cb3 Just when I say there are one more coming. That question is, we use GraphRec for our project.\cb1 \
\cb3 Did you propose?\cb1 \
\cb3 for your project to the Thai. What approach did you propose for your project to the Thai government?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 20:01:49\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 What that question actually means, sorry?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 20:01:51\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Bye.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, he said, we use GraphRAG for our project. For amendments, notification, updates in the future, what approach did you propose for your project to the Thai government?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Saruj - STEL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 20:02:04\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Okay, I don't know what you mean, approach, but basically, by the way, I'm so happy to hear this. Yes, we're living in the same painful world. For those legal people in the room, the way that all of you wrote the.\cb1 \
\cb3 the amendment update uh it's very painful for an engineering like us So and and by the way that's how Thai legal instrument was returned So that's the main provision that doesn't change over 10 years But there's a lot of change in the NSS.\cb1 \
\cb3 or attachment to that provision every basically every year.\cb1 \
\cb3 So the typical rack won't work. The skill, the concept of agentic skill doesn't work because we're talking about huge context window need to process all at once. So eventually, we end up with graph rack technology. We propose.\cb1 \
\cb3 to the Thai government that this is the technique that we're gonna address.\cb1 \
\cb3 we actually built a prototype for a traditional rack versus a grub rack, just to show to the Thai government that this one has much higher accuracy, so let's go with this one, please. And that's how we get the approval.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Witada Anukoonwattaka\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 20:03:15\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Thank you very much. I believe the conversation will still continue, and probably I will get more questions to email to you, Khun Sarut.\cb1 \
\cb3 Today we have very interesting for perspective and I gather from Professor Henry Gao from SMU that law has precise language. There are hierarchy application types that matter.\cb1 \
\cb3 for interpreting the raw correctly. So that is to be first order conditions that the tool has to address. And then Ashik from WTO has show us what.\cb1 \
\cb3 the real policy community would need from the AI tools.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uh, we learned from, uh, Simon and Thomas from EUI about where, uh\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 data collection by human brains at scale. And there are suggestions on which lips that.\cb1 \
\cb3 they want from the AI tool to help them solve those issues.\cb1 \
\cb3 Last but not least, Kun Sarut has told us that all those complicatedness, although it looks hard, but actually it's achievable, and he has proved it through his real projects on\'85\cb1 \
\cb3 tied to OECD. I thank you very much to all four speakers of our two days. We have not end the conversation here. We still have tomorrow and next week.\cb1 \
\cb3 Webinars. Tomorrow we will have closed sessions for specifically for our hackathon participants. There will be hands-on exercise waiting for you. So I'm sure that it will be deep learning happening tomorrow.\cb1 \
\cb3 And then next week, we will go deep into technical aspect that you may interested and take some lessons, learn some tricks to use in your development.\cb1 \
\cb3 Until next session, bye.}